APIView code file token tsp and json schema (#8816)
Azure/azure-sdk-tools: tools/apiview/parsers/CONTRIBUTING.md

# APIView token parsers

This page describes how to contribute to [APIView](../../../src//dotnet/APIView/APIViewWeb/APIViewWeb.csproj) language level parsers.
Specifically how to create or update a language parser to produce a hierarchy of the API using a tree data tokens, instead of a flat token list.
Specifically how to create or update a language parser to produce a hierarchy of the API using tokens with context, instead of a flat token list.

## Tree style token parser benefits
## Benefits of token schema with parent - child context

- Ability to granularly identify a specific class and it’s methods or a specific API alone within a large review without rendering entire tokens.
- Ability to granularly identify a specific node and it's sub nodes. For e.g. if a review line for a class is available then all it's child nodes contain all methods and properties within that class.
- Faster diffing using tree shaker instead of current text based comparison.
- Provide diffing with context of where the line that changed belong to in the tree, instead of showing the 5 lines before and after the change.
- Provide cross language view for a granular section within an API review.

> - Support for collapsible views at each class and namespace level to make it easier to review the change. User will be able to expand/collapse an entire class or a namespace and it’s children.

Reviewer: you are removing this because it is not yet implemented or because with the proposed changes it won't be possible

Author: > you are removing this because it is not yet implemented or because with the proposed changes it won't be possible

It's not added yet. I am removing it since it's not a benefit yet straight from this new token model. We can add it once the feature is added in APIView.

> APIView token schema is available in [TypeSpec](./apiview-treestyle-parser-schema/model.tsp) and [JSON](./apiview-treestyle-parser-schema/model.json). Parser needs to create a `CodeFile` object as per the schema.

Reviewer: maybe?
```suggestion
APIView token schema is available in [TypeSpec](./apiview-treestyle-parser-schema/model.tsp) and [JSON](./apiview-treestyle-parser-schema/model.json). Language parsers needs to create a `CodeFile` object as per the schema.
```

> `CodeFile` object contains a metadata about the package and array of `ReviewLine` object. Each object of review line in `CodeFile` object is a top level lines to be listed. For e.g. Top level lines are mostly namespace or module level nodes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`CodeFile` object contains metadata about the package and an array of `ReviewLine` objects. Each object of `ReviewLine` in `CodeFile` object is a top-level line to be listed. For e.g. Top-level lines are mostly namespace or module level nodes.
```

Each `ReviewLine` object has children of `ReviewLine` to include sub nodes that needs to be listed in a review.

A sample token file is present [here](./apiview-treestyle-parser-schema/sample/Azure.Template_token.json).

> APIView generates navigation tree based on the information in token. A token is included in the navigation tree if `NavigatonDisplayName` is set in `ReviewToken` and `LineId` is set in `ReviewLine` object that contains the `ReviewToken`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
APIView generates a navigation tree based on the information in the tokens. A token is included in the navigation tree if `NavigatonDisplayName` is set in `ReviewToken` and `LineId` is set in `ReviewLine` object that contains the `ReviewToken`
```

## Serialization

Serialize the generated code file to JSON. The output file should have `.json` extension. Try to make the json as small as possible by ignoring null values and empty collections.

> Don't worry about indentation that will be handled by the tree structure based on the parent - child relationship among `ReviewLine` objects.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Don't worry about indentation as it will be handled by the tree structure based on the parent-child relationship among `ReviewLine` objects.
```

## Examples

A sample token file for .NET package `Azure.Template` is present [here](./apiview-treestyle-parser-schema/sample/Azure.Template_token.json) and corresponding rendered text representation is available [here](./apiview-treestyle-parser-schema/sample/Azure.Template_review_content.txt).

## JSON token validation

You can validate JSON tokens against required JSON schema using [JSON schema validator](https://www.jsonschemavalidator.net/).

> - Select `Custom` as schema type and copy and paste the contents in [json schema](./apiview-treestyle-parser-schema/model.json) to left panel.

Reviewer: Jonathan was saying we can publish the json schema on https://www.schemastore.org/json/
or somewhere and that way people can just reference and there is no need for them to manually copy it every time they want to validate it.
Look in Teams for the `APIView Documentation` group chat. Jonathan sent the message on 7/23

Author: I have discussed this with Jonathan and he is fine with JSON schema stored in azure-sdk-tools repo.

> - Generate API view token file and paste generated JSON content onto right side panel to validate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Generate APIView token file and paste generated JSON content onto right side panel to validate.
```
